style: apply /style-guide pass to weave (#2739)
wandb/docs: weave/guides/evaluation/evaluation_logger.mdx

---
title: "Log evaluation data from your code"
description: "Flexible, incremental way to log evaluation data from Python and TypeScript code"
keywords: ["EvaluationLogger", "log_prediction", "log_score", "incremental evaluation", "rich media logging"]
---

This guide shows you how to use `EvaluationLogger` to record predictions and scores from your existing Python or TypeScript code, so you can evaluate model performance in Weave without first defining a full dataset and scorer suite.

> The `EvaluationLogger` provides a flexible, incremental way to log evaluation data directly from your Python or TypeScript code. You don't need deep knowledge of Weave's internal data types. Instantiate a logger and use its methods (`log_prediction`, `log_score`, `log_summary`) to record evaluation steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed the redundant intro paragraph in a79acba99 (per the empty suggestion).

After calling `finish()` on a prediction, no more scores can be logged for it.
</Warning>

> For a Python code example that demonstrates this workflow, see the [Basic example](#basic-example). If the output and all scores are available at once, Python users can combine steps 2 through 4 into a single call using [`log_example()`](#simplified-logging-with-log_example).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a Python example that demonstrates this workflow, see the [Basic example](#basic-example). If the output and all scores are available at once, Python users can combine steps 2 through 4 into a single call using [`log_example()`](#simplified-logging-with-log_example).
```

Author: Applied verbatim in a79acba99.

<Frame>
![The Comparison view](/weave/guides/evaluation/img/comparison.png)
</Frame>

## Usage tips

The following tips help you get the most out of `EvaluationLogger`:

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Python">
- Call `finish()` promptly after each prediction.
- Use `log_summary` to capture metrics not tied to single predictions (for example, overall latency).
- Rich media logging is useful for qualitative analysis.
</Tab>
<Tab title="TypeScript">

> - Auto-finish behavior: Although you should explicitly call `finish()` on each prediction for clarity, `logSummary()` automatically finishes any unfinished predictions. However, once the script calls `finish()`, it can't log any more scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Auto-finish behavior**: While we recommend explicitly calling `finish()` on each prediction for clarity, `logSummary()` automatically finishes any unfinished predictions. However, once the script calls `finish()`, it can't log any more scores.
```

Author: Applied verbatim in a79acba99.

> - Configuration options: Use configuration options, including `name`, `description`, `dataset`, `model`, `scorers`, and `attributes` to organize and filter your evaluations in the Weave UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Configuration options**: Use configuration options, including `name`, `description`, `dataset`, `model`, `scorers`, and `attributes` to organize and filter your evaluations in the Weave UI.
```

Author: Applied verbatim in a79acba99.
